Plant Disease Detection Web Application

Identification of the plant diseases is the key to
preventing the losses in the yield and quantity of the agricultural
product. The studies of the plant diseases mean the studies of
visually observable patterns seen on the plant. Health monitoring
and disease detection on plant is very critical for sustainable
agriculture. It is very difficult to monitor the plant diseases
manually. It requires tremendous amount of work, expertise in the
plant diseases, and also require the excessive processing time.
Hence, image processing is used for the detection of plant diseases.
Disease detection involves the steps like image acquisition, image
pre-processing, image segmentation, feature extraction and
classification.

AI web application that detects diseases in plants using FastAi which is built on the
top of Facebook’s deep learning platform: PyTorch. According to the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (UN), trans-boundary plant pests and diseases affect food
crops, causing significant losses to farmers and threatening food security.
The application uses open access repository for the dataset.

Detection of plant disease through some automatic technique is beneficial as it requires a large
amount of work of monitoring in big farm of crops, and at very early stage itself it detects symptoms of
diseases means where they appear on plant leaves.
Motive
For this challenge, I used the “PlanVillage” dataset. This dataset contains an open access repository of images on plant health to enable the development of mobile disease diagnostics. The dataset contains 54, 309 images. The images span 14 crop species: Apple, Blueberry, Cherry, Grape, Orange, Peach, Bell Pepper, Potato, Raspberry, Soybean, Squash, Strawberry, and Tomato. It contains images of 17 fundal diseases, 4 bacterial diseases, 2 molds (oomycete) diseases, 2 viral diseases, and 1 disease caused by a mite. 12 crop species also have images of healthy leaves that are not visibly affected by a disease.
